JavaScript time again, and forever.
[LAUGH] So if you check out
instead of clock/index.html,
clock/finished.html, you'll
find my finished solution.
But there's a lot of different ways and
different results y'all
could have got from this.
The output of yours might even
look totally different, but
here's what mine looks like.
All right, so let's see how we could
do this, one way we could do this.
But I'm also, again,
very curious to hear what other people did
that might be super different from mine.
Okay, we've got this
very exciting webpage.
And we've got our little script tag for
our clock script.
How did y'all go about grabbing
the clock and the time element?
>> getElementById.
>> It's like const clock =
document.getElementById('clock').
>> Clock, all right, great.
Yeah, and IDs are our best friend,
cuz we can just grab anything.
So for example, maybe we also grab this,
I'm gonna call it the text,
even though it's a paragraph.
We could do like document.getElementById.
But there's also other ways
we could have done this,
we could use a query selector or whatever.
Okay, so I got some stuff to work with.
And now we said,
let's go back to those slides, maybe.
Okay, we said we want to know
what the current time is.
I don't wanna know about yesterday,
I wanna know about now.
So, how did we do that?
There's a few ways, but essentially,
they're gonna start with,
I'm gonna call this currentTime,
cuz why not?
We can create a date object
that represents time sort
of with new Date(),
date with an e, [LAUGH].
Okay, cool.
So now if I console.log
the current time just
to gut check myself, and I inspect.
Maybe, okay.
[LAUGH] So
I have some kinda time happening and
it is at least the correct day, so
we'll consider that good enough.
All right, so now we don't wanna
necessarily be telling them all of that.
Nobody needs all of that
on their screensaver.
So maybe I just want to
get the time as a string,
which I can do by calling
the method toDateString().
Sorry, toTimeString().
All right, so now it's at least
something a little bit more readable,
but it's still a lot of info.
So maybe I just want this to look more
like what you would expect a clock
to look like wherever you are on
the planet, which conveniently,
there is another method
called toLocaleTimeString(),
which now just gives me a usable,
reasonably short value.
Okay, great.
So I now have the value I need.
I'm gonna save this as a timeString,
so I remember what it is
And now I can, let's say,
set the text of my text [LAUGH].
It's a bit confusing terminology here,
but the .textContent property of an HTML
element can allow me to assign some
new value to the text content of this.
So I could do timeString, and
let's see if anything happens.
Good.
I have a time, but
it's just staying there.
If I refresh the page, okay, it is
changing based on when it was called.
But it's always in the top left corner,
boring.
And it's always stagnant if
I just leave the page open.
So, now we got to get our
timing friends involved.
So, what could I use to, let's say,
update this time every three seconds?
>> Intervals.
>> Intervals, exactly.
Okay, great.
So now if I were to, let's say,
take all of this stuff and
put a function on it,
put a bird on it, So
this is It's gonna be, I'm just gonna
give it a name for my reference.
So I'll call this updateTime(),
for example.
Thank you auto format.
Talk about that a little bit later.
This now is something that I could
pass into a call to setInterval().
I want an interval cuz I want
this to run continuously,
not a timer which is just gonna wait and
then run it once.
Sorry, not a timeout which is
just gonna wait and run it once.
So I'm gonna set the interval, I pass in
my callback function which is updateTime,
and then I need to pass in
the number of seconds, and
I gave you the arbitrary
value of three seconds.
But here is where I could mess with that
and choose something else if I wanted to.
And so now, what did I forget to do?
Now, I'm, there it goes.
Yes, okay.
Now let's refresh.
I have to wait a little while
to get the clock because
setInterval() doesn't
run at the beginning.
So if I want the user to not get confused
like I just did on my own page [LAUGH] and
see at least some kinda time at first,
I could call updateTime() once,
so that I make sure to, now let's refresh.
Make sure to update it and then three
seconds laterish, it'll update again.